IMP: vibe-coding my way to a new cli (#9)
gregcaporaso/fq-manifestor: README.md

# fq-manifestor

> `fq-manifestor` is a tool to assist with generating [QIIME 2 paired-end fastq manifest files](https://docs.qiime2.org/2022.2/tutorials/importing/#fastq-manifest-formats). This is not widely tested and likely not very general purpose, but is designed as a starting point to assist Illumina users with importing paired-end demultiplexed fastq files for use with QIIME 2. This tool does not actually import your data into QIIME 2, but rather generates a fastq manifest file and suggests an import command to use with QIIME 2. That increases portability of the tool as it can be run on systems without QIIME 2 installed on them.

Author: ```suggestion
`fq-manifestor` is a tool to assist with generating [QIIME 2 paired-end fastq manifest files](https://amplicon-docs.qiime2.org/en/stable/how-to-guides/how-to-import.html#import-fastq-manifest). This is not widely tested and likely not very general purpose, but is designed as a starting point to assist Illumina users with importing paired-end demultiplexed fastq files for use with QIIME 2. This tool does not actually import your data into QIIME 2, but rather generates a fastq manifest file and suggests an import command to use with QIIME 2. That increases portability of the tool as it can be run on systems without QIIME 2 installed on them.
```

This tool was originally developed to facilitate work with the [NAU Genetics Core Facility](https://in.nau.edu/gcf/).

## Why is this tool needed?

> Importing can be hard. I talk a little about why [here](https://gregcaporaso.github.io/q2book/using/importing.html#importing-data-into-qiime-2).

Author: ```suggestion
Importing can be hard. I talk a little about why [here](https://amplicon-docs.qiime2.org/en/stable/explanations/why-importing.html).
```

## Installation

```

> pip install fq-manifestor

Author: pip install https://github.com/gregcaporaso/fq-manifestor/archive/refs/heads/main.zip

> pip install fq-manifestor

Author: ```suggestion
pip install https://github.com/gregcaporaso/fq-manifestor/archive/refs/heads/main.zip
```

```

For development:

```
git clone https://github.com/gregcaporaso/fq-manifestor
cd fq-manifestor
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

> Requires Python 3.10–3.12.

Author: ```suggestion
Requires Python 3.10–3.12.
Should be easily installable in any rachis deployments (e.g., QIIME 2, MOSHPIT) ≥ 2026.1. 
```
